# Getting-clean-water-from-7-seas.
WATER SUPPLY WITH FOCUSED SOLAR COLLECTORS
PROJECT SUBJECT 
The aim of the project is to produce fresh water from sea water by using solar energy cheaply. For this purpose, we use solar energy by evaporating the sea water in evaporators with a viscous heat transfer agent and then condensing it and pumping this water to the desired location.
The source to be created basely for irrigation purposes; to obtain energy by Planar Mirror Focus Solar Collectors (TPE Useful Model no: 2017/20075) is developed by us. By this system is obtained fresh water from Mediterranean sea, and required energy is provided only by the sun.
AREA NEEDED APPLICATION
 
The necessary area is required 72 m2 per 2 unit for this Steam and Energy Generation Plant.
The system has an operating method for transferring the heat generated by focusing the sun's rays; so a protected area should be established.
A representative view of the Focused Solar Collectors in these locations is presented below in Figure-1. (This is taken from plans prepared for 60 kW factory needs.)

 
Figure-1
CURRENT SITUATION
1)	Focused Planar Mirrored Solar Energy Collectors are modular units, and every unit has 42m2 collector area, automatic solar tracking unit, 420 0C temperature at focus and above. 
2)	The temperature of the collected solar energy can be adjusted if necessary, but varies slightly according to the regions. In any case,  heat transfer oil or suitable melts are heated and this heat can be transferred by this solar energy to get steam from sea water.
3)	However, with this method in our example; pumping of sea water will be used for the purpose of obtaining fresh water by the help of condensing of steam which creates low pressure in evaporation level; In the energy generation section for pumps and solar tracking unit, it will be used PV panels.
a)	.4) In order to ensure the parallel connection of the units, they must be located in the same area and close to each other.

4)	Our system focuses with flat mirrors. Because;
a)	Glass mirror reflectance ratio is min: 0.95.
b)	Molded flexiglass is used for concave mirrors and its life is ½ ratio compared to glass mirror.
c)	Concave cost is high. Sailing area against the wind is large.
d)	Partial mirrors are easy to change as a result of breakage in our system and can be made simply by the user. Each tray is out of the mold and the mirrors are simple to assemble.
e)	It is possible to determine and adjust the temperature in focus with the numbers of mirrorsSYSTEM COMPONENTS:
5)	Mirror panel and planar mirrors group,
6)	Exchanger for getting steam,
7)	Steam Manifold,
8)	Evaporater,
9)	Condensing system
10)	Heat exchanger unit (if required for hot water to use),
11)	Low pressure feeding line,
12)	Valves, flow control unit and fittings materials.
a)	i)- Pump (oil circulating and water circulating)
b)	j)- Oil tank

13)	Besides, during the power generation of the system, hot water or hot air taken from the cooled condensate unit due to being closed loop; domestic use and space heating (including pre-storage) can be used.
14)	The features of Focused Solar Collectors used in Steam Cycle can be designed as desired. However, as the “Automatic Solar Tracking System” restriction requires an extremely high cost over 42 m2 tracking system, it is calculated that each unit will absorb energy at maximum effective power of 37.6 kW
TARGET OF THE PROJECT
1)	The purpose of the project; Since there is not enough irrigation and utility water in many land, with the intention of providing irrigation and utility water in this region; is to develop a pilot. To ensure that irrigation and utility water is supplied from Renewable Sources, to keep energy costs low by using solar energy, to provide heating, electricity, pumping and transfer processes from the same energy and above all; To increase agricultural activities in the region with environmental awareness. Pilot application will supply 80 liters / hour of water, which is not suitable for drinking. However, as drinking water; it is possible to use with some additions and improvements.
2)	Mirror-oriented solar collectors are used in many parts of the world. These collectors are parabolic corrugated, solar tower or parabolic bowl type. Glass mirrors cannot be used in parabolic boiler systems and they are very expensive designs due to their concave shape. In the system we developed, the cost is much lower and maintenance and repairs are made easier thanks to the focus with multiple mirrors and flat table carriers without the need for concave structure. The picture of the 12 kW model is shown in Figure-2 below.


 
Figure-2
a-	The amount of energy required for the Pilot application will be calculated for 0,08 m3 / h fresh water gaining for this project.
b-	Under low pressure (0.3 / 0.4 bar), the energy required for the evaporation of 1 kg of water is 540 kCal / kg (from the steam table) and for the evaporation of 80 kg / h water is 540 x 80 = 43,200 kCal / h.
Every unit has 33 kW/h power and capability of producing steam. (33 kW = 28374 Kcal/h)
c-	Considering the energy expenditure of the facility for one hour to work the pumps and servo motors; the average installedelectrical  power will consume 6200 W / h of solar electricity; The need for an average energy consumption should get 7000 kW / h (over 2990 hours). This part will be able to design and produce by a second party.
d-	The production capacity of the system varies depending on the sunbathing areas presented in Figure-3. The average sunshine duration is 8.3 hours per year in the South Australia region and it is around 3029 hours / year (Source: http://www.yegm.gov.tr/).
e-	It was evaluated that fresh water to be used will be required in spring and summer months usually, average sunshine duration is 10.49 hours / day and effective energy transfer will be 9.8 hours
f-	The energy transferred from the sun is 752 W / m2 in this period (figure 3). The energy to be absorbed by each unit is 31.6 kW / h with 8 months. 
g-	Heat transfer is made in the units with hot oil; heat exchanger units are designed as a separate evaporator; yields are 0.88 and. Mirror-focused solar tracking units are designed in groups of two. Although the facility has a life of 30 years.
h-	Water to be obtained during the remaining 1032 hours of sunbathing of this process can be used as additional gain as desired.
      
SOURCE: https://www.adelaide.climatemps.com

 

Figure-3
The cost of piping, pressure regulation and intermediate transfer stations that will be required for the transport of fresh water produced is not calculated in the project and this cost should be added.

FACILITY INSTALLATION PLACE

a)	LOCATION

1)	Due to the fact that the units are 2, the area to be covered is 72 m2  is sufficient.
2)	The positioning of the units shall be side by side. The turbine and command Panel shall be located in the North part of the collectors.
3)	Each unit has a weight of 1460 kg; solar tracking system construction is included in this weight. With the addition of 2 different steam manifolds and fittings elements, the total weight to be formed on the ground is 2,9 tons.
4)	The units automatically switch to park position in storms exceeding 25 km / h wind speed. The maximum storm speed is 100 km / h. When it reaches its values, it is in the park position and the moment calculation on this position: In the park position, all planar layers are horizontal. As such, each unit exhibits a maximum surface area of 7 m2 and should be considered an apparent area of 1.7 m above the base. (Because of the rectangular cross section, cp = 2 is taken.)
P = 0.00256 x v2 = 25.9 kg / m2
F1 = p * cp * A1 = 25.6 x 2 x 7 x 1.7m = 609.28 kgm (per unit.)
       
Figure-4

5)	Solar tracking systems can cover 2 units in each row. Since the units in each row will have mechanical connection with each other; they will turn to the sun during the day and remain in the “Park” position in closed weather and during the night period. Therefore, there will be a weight change in the ground in such a way that the effect during the day is ignored. After 20,000 days (54 years), it is considered useful to test material fatigue in metal construction due to this change.

 
Figure-5

6) The life of the fresh water generation plant with the solar energy to be constructed is foreseen for 30 years. Mirrors are interchangeable and planar are space lattice type. Its mechanical parts are made of light and corrosion resistant material and the curtain is electrically controlled at night and in sunless weather.

Project Cost-Agency Analysis


A- SOLAR COLLECTOR UNIT PARTS ……………………………………. $ 7,846
o	Mirror tray (99 total)
o	Flat mirrors (ft2)
o	Mirror holder legs (19x19ea + 26x23ea)
o	Solar tracking unit (7200 $ / 2)
o	Metal base
o	Steam boiler / glow manifold handles
B- PURE WATER VAPORATION UNIT ………………………………………. $ 2,303
•	8- High pressure glow container (1950 $)
•	9- Pressure relief valve
•	10- Heliostatic Actuator valve (steam)
•	11- Partial pressure regulator (water)
•	12- Pressure control valve
•	13- Condensstop (floating)
•	14- Thermostatic condensstop / steam)
•	15- Compansator 1 ”
•	16- Compansator 2.5 ”
•	17- Steam seperator (40 bar)
•	18- Circulation pump
•	19- Check valve
•	20- Condenser
•	21- Boiler water control switch
•	22- Breaker valve
•	23- Solenoid valve
•	24- High pressure pipes and flexible connections:
•	25 – 1 ton capacity heat oil tank …………………………………………
   .2,574$

TOTAL 							14,673 $

ADDITIONAL PARTS
Automation unit and panel: …………………………………………………….. 6080 $
Supplies ………………………………………………………………………….. 4200 $
Heat transfer oil …………. 1 ton ………………………………………………... 2985 $
Cooling tower 
Pumps



For Pv Party;
PV panels 250 W 10 adet 90 $/each …………………………………………….. 900 $
Inverter 10 kW  ……………………………………………………………………….  2600 $
Charger unit and cables …………………………………………………………….  800 $
Batteries 200 A/h 4 each ……………………………………………………………. 1220 $
 Structure and panels …………………………………………………………………  600 $

IMPORTANT NOTE: The material and cost details provided above include “Commercial Confidentiality, and it is important to take into account that it should not be used without permission from other authorities.

Business Schedule:
Days	Operations	Time
4.-28.	Installation of collector bases	
6.-34.	Mounting of mirror trays	
10.-35.	Installation of solar tracking systems	
12.-38.	Installation of high pressure lines and units	
14.-30.	Condensate and heat exchanger unit assemblies	
15.-41.	Pipe and fittings connections	
16.-36.	Production and installation of evaporators	
30.-44.	Turbine and pump assemblies	
36.-46.	Installation of control and control systems	
40.-46	System operation testing and settings	
24.-47.	Wiring and network connections	
26-47.	Making the system operational tests. MV connection setup. Water pumping.	
20.-48.	Completion of tests with authorities.	
----	TOTAL TIME (Overlay)	Weekends not included


Estimated Income:
No special revenue item was envisaged in this project.

The first stage of this project is to obtain fresh water as a pilot application, and to analyze the cost and enterprise of this process; redesign according to optimal conditions; The irrigation water system to be used will be corrected according to the most optimum conditions. At this stage, the design is constantly renewable as necessary.
Even if it is not appreciated, 0,08 m3 / h irrigation water plant will be realized in the current region. However, the existence and similar applicability of similar systems in some Middle Eastern countries is a sufficient conclusion.
The most important advantage of this system is that it can easily be converted also into an electricity generation system (with the addition of a steam turbine).

Yours truly.
Dr.Orhan UTLU
R&D Consultant orhanutlu@gmail.com , outlu@hotmail.com
